README.md, before:

TLS-O-MATIC.COM
===============

Automated self-tests of TLS. Set up for the #MoreCrypto /#MeraKrypto
Meetup in Stockholm in March 2015.

Tests 1-15 are tests of certificate validation.

Test 20 is based on recommendations from bettercrypto.org on how
to configure Apache HTTPD for a strong server. 
Test 21 is a test of weak crypto. An application that wants to claim
to be secure today should not connect to a server configured like this.

The main site is at http://www.tls-o-matic.com

About the scripts
-----------------
These scripts allow you to make certificates for test purposes. The
certificates will all share a common CA root so that everyone running
these scripts can have interoperable certificates. WARNING - these
certificates are totally insecure and are for test purposes only. 

Things to go through before and during tests
--------------------------------------------
	- What is CN - Common Name
	- What is SubjectAltName
	- What about all the other stuff in the cert?
	- Selfsigned certificates, CA signed certs - DV, EV

Certificate and CA Tests
-------------------------

1.	Describe CA, download CA cert
	- Access https://test1.tls-o-matic.com
		Warnings
	- Install the CA cert from the TLS-O-MATIC Super CA
		Show CN, key usage
	- Access the site again

2.	Wrong certificate - bad CN
	- https://test2.tls-o-matic.com:402
		Note: No SAN in the cert
		CN test2.tls-o-matic.null

3.	Wrong cert - bad SubjAltName
	- https://test3.tls-o-matic.com:403
		SAN: https://test3.tls-o-matic.null

4.	Wildcard cert
	- https://test4.tls-o-matic.com:404
	- https://test4test.tls-o-matic.com:404

5.	Cert from future
	- https://test5.tls-o-matic.com:405

6. 	Expired certificate
	- https://test6.tls-o-matic.com:406

7.	Evil unknown CA
	- https://test7.tls-o-matic.com:407

8.	Client cert required
	- https://test8.tls-o-matic.com:408

9. 	Weak certificate - small key, MD5 signature
	- https://test9.tls-o-matic.com:409

10.	Intermediate cert
	- https://test10.tls-o-matic.com:410

11.	Long certificate chain (3 intermediaries)
	- https://test11.tls-o-matic.com:411

12.	Huge certificate with a lot of subject alt names (21 kb cert)
	- https://test12.tls-o-matic.com:412

13.	Certificate based on a very large key with SHA512 checksum
	- https://test13.tls-o-matic.com:413

14.	Certificate with a weird combination of usage bits.
	- https://test14.tls-o-matic.com:414

15.	TLS SNI test. One server, multiple certificates. Check which certificate
	you get from the server. The client indicates support for TLS SNI.

	- https://test15.tls-o-matic.com:415	Default server. You will always end up here 
						if your client does not support TLS
						server name indication for test15a or test15b
	- https://test15a.tls-o-matic.com:415
	- https://test15b.tls-o-matic.com:415




Crypto and SSL/TLS protocol tests
---------------------------------
20.	Not a certificate test. This server has no SSLv2 or SSLv3 and only supports
	strong crypto algorithms. Based on recommendations from http://bettercrypto.org
	- https://test20.tls-o-matic.com:420

21.	Not a certificate test. This server has only SSLv2 or SSLv3 and only supports
	weak crypto algorithms. Based on recommendations from Netscape Communication in 
	the 90's. Good old times are here again.
	Browsers does not accept cert or crypto.
	- https://test21.tls-o-matic.com:421


Possible future cert tests
--------------------------
	- Cert used for HTTP with no subject CN and only http URI's as sAN names
	- Site with incomplete or bad intermediate cert chain
	- Hostname in CN only - check CAB Forum rules
	- Unknown extension in cert, marked critical (browser should reject)
	- EC keys
	- weak-wildcard certs ( CN="*" )  (DSL)
	- Wrong version certificates - Cert version 0x01 (v2) or 0x03 (v4) certificates. Not sure if v4 should be invalid as that makes your test broken in the future, sometime. (DSL)
	- MD5 intermediate in chain (invalid) (DSL)
	- 1024 bit intermediate in chain (invalid) (DSL)
	- Two certificates in a chain with the same serial number (invalid) (DSL)
	- Issuer mismatch in the chain ( RFC 5280, Section 6.1.3) (DSL)
	- cert for IP address, not host name. What is the expected outcome? CA/Browser forum doesn't like it.

Other TLS test ideas
--------------------
	- Site that only offers null crypto
	- Build the three reference profiles from Mozilla
	  https://wiki.mozilla.org/Security/Server_Side_TLS#Recommended_configurations

API tests
---------
	- Possibly add a json payload in return for javascript/app testing
	- Possibly add a XML payload in return for app testing


Installing
----------
You can install this on your own system - check out in /usr/local/tls-o-matic
To test another domain you can change domain in the Makefile. Not sure
if this works in all scripts yet.

Credits
-------
- Jakob Schlyter provided good feedback
- D Spindel Ljungmark contributed new test ideas
- Tomas Gustavsson, Primekey for some new ideas and feedback

Commit message:

Adding test16 with unicode characters
Inspired by a discussion at #MeraKrypto in Stockholm

README.md, after:

TLS-O-MATIC.COM
===============

Automated self-tests of TLS. Set up for the #MoreCrypto /#MeraKrypto
Meetup in Stockholm in March 2015.

Tests 1-16 are tests of certificate validation.

Test 20 is based on recommendations from bettercrypto.org on how
to configure Apache HTTPD for a strong server. 
Test 21 is a test of weak crypto. An application that wants to claim
to be secure today should not connect to a server configured like this.
Test 22 is focusing on modern Perfect Forward Secrecy encryption.

The main site is at http://www.tls-o-matic.com

About the scripts
-----------------
These scripts allow you to make certificates for test purposes. The
certificates will all share a common CA root so that everyone running
these scripts can have interoperable certificates. WARNING - these
certificates are totally insecure and are for test purposes only. 

Things to go through before and during tests
--------------------------------------------
	- What is CN - Common Name
	- What is SubjectAltName
	- What about all the other stuff in the cert?
	- Selfsigned certificates, CA signed certs - DV, EV

Certificate and CA Tests
-------------------------

1.	Describe CA, download CA cert
	- Access https://test1.tls-o-matic.com
		Warnings
	- Install the CA cert from the TLS-O-MATIC Super CA
		Show CN, key usage
	- Access the site again

2.	Wrong certificate - bad CN
	- https://test2.tls-o-matic.com:402
		Note: No SAN in the cert
		CN test2.tls-o-matic.null

3.	Wrong cert - bad SubjAltName
	- https://test3.tls-o-matic.com:403
		SAN: https://test3.tls-o-matic.null

4.	Wildcard cert
	- https://test4.tls-o-matic.com:404
	- https://test4test.tls-o-matic.com:404

5.	Cert from future
	- https://test5.tls-o-matic.com:405

6. 	Expired certificate
	- https://test6.tls-o-matic.com:406

7.	Evil unknown CA
	- https://test7.tls-o-matic.com:407

8.	Client cert required
	- https://test8.tls-o-matic.com:408

9. 	Weak certificate - small key, MD5 signature
	- https://test9.tls-o-matic.com:409

10.	Intermediate cert
	- https://test10.tls-o-matic.com:410

11.	Long certificate chain (3 intermediaries)
	- https://test11.tls-o-matic.com:411

12.	Huge certificate with a lot of subject alt names (21 kb cert)
	- https://test12.tls-o-matic.com:412

13.	Certificate based on a very large key with SHA512 checksum
	- https://test13.tls-o-matic.com:413

14.	Certificate with a weird combination of usage bits.
	- https://test14.tls-o-matic.com:414

15.	TLS SNI test. One server, multiple certificates. Check which certificate
	you get from the server. The client indicates support for TLS SNI.

	- https://test15.tls-o-matic.com:415	Default server. You will always end up here 
						if your client does not support TLS
						server name indication for test15a or test15b
	- https://test15a.tls-o-matic.com:415
	- https://test15b.tls-o-matic.com:415

16.	Test of International domain names in certificates
	SAN certificate with IDNA names. One server, one cert with many names
	- https://test16.tls-o-matic.com:416
	- https://😎..tls-o-matic.com:416
	- https://blåbärsmjölk.tls-o-matic.com:416




Crypto and SSL/TLS protocol tests
---------------------------------
20.	Not a certificate test. This server has no SSLv2 or SSLv3 and only supports
	strong crypto algorithms. Based on recommendations from http://bettercrypto.org
	- https://test20.tls-o-matic.com:420

21.	Not a certificate test. This server has only SSLv2 or SSLv3 and only supports
	weak crypto algorithms. Based on recommendations from Netscape Communication in 
	the 90's. Good old times are here again.
	Browsers does not accept cert or crypto.
	- https://test21.tls-o-matic.com:421

22.	This server follows Ivan Ristic's configuration in this blog:
	http://blog.ivanristic.com/2013/08/configuring-apache-nginx-and-openssl-for-forward-secrecy.html
	It is configured without RC4 support.
	Old clients will not be able to connect.
	- https://test22.tls-o-matic.com:422


Possible future cert tests
--------------------------
	- Cert used for HTTP with no subject CN and only http URI's as sAN names
	- Site with incomplete or bad intermediate cert chain
	- Hostname in CN only - check CAB Forum rules
	- Unknown extension in cert, marked critical (browser should reject)
	- EC keys
	- weak-wildcard certs ( CN="*" )  (DSL)
	- Wrong version certificates - Cert version 0x01 (v2) or 0x03 (v4) certificates. Not sure if v4 should be invalid as that makes your test broken in the future, sometime. (DSL)
	- MD5 intermediate in chain (invalid) (DSL)
	- 1024 bit intermediate in chain (invalid) (DSL)
	- Two certificates in a chain with the same serial number (invalid) (DSL)
	- Issuer mismatch in the chain ( RFC 5280, Section 6.1.3) (DSL)
	- cert for IP address, not host name. What is the expected outcome? CA/Browser forum doesn't like it.

Other TLS test ideas
--------------------
	- Site that only offers null crypto
	- Build the three reference profiles from Mozilla
	  https://wiki.mozilla.org/Security/Server_Side_TLS#Recommended_configurations

API tests
---------
	- Possibly add a json payload in return for javascript/app testing
	- Possibly add a XML payload in return for app testing


Installing
----------
You can install this on your own system - check out in /usr/local/tls-o-matic
To test another domain you can change domain in the Makefile. Not sure
if this works in all scripts yet.

Credits
-------
- Jakob Schlyter provided good feedback
- D Spindel Ljungmark contributed new test ideas
- Tomas Gustavsson, Primekey for some new ideas and feedback
